---
layout: post
title:  "Why I do this & the idea of artwork"

---
I watched Slavoj Zizek’s lecture vedio [“Disposable Life”]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ud2Wq9wT7cQ&t=12s) on YouTube. In it he mentioned the Democratic Republic of Congo as a typical example of one kind of today’s human situation, namely, being left out in a kind of anarchic situation and in a kind of garbage life, because of global capitalism system’s interference and at the same time because of the failure of global capitalism system’s interference.

The above description may seem very twisted, but after I wrote a research paper on Congo in Mr. Ezra Haber Glenn’s Psychogeography class in MIT, I felt that the real situation out there in Congo has a more complicated twist in itself. Or to put it in another way, what is obvious and clear is the conspicuous human suffering happening there (and this is also what I mainly covered in my paper), but what is twisted is the question about Congo and the world, or Congo and us, what is the relationship? After I wrote the paper, I know there is a relationship, the suffer of Democratic Republic of Congo clearly relates to the Cold War, to Rwandan Genocide,  to global mineral trading, to mafia militias backed by other countries’ governments... but why do the global powers do this? They have a reason, a claimed benefit, a programed plan and a value system accounting for all of this, which of course can be called the “global capitalism system”, and this word means that it has a relation to “us”, us as employees, as consumers, as people with specific national identity. But what is the relation between Congo and us? Here it becomes twisted, it is ridiculous for a no less instituted normal western individual to shoulder the leviathan mistake of the whole system. Thus there is no way to require people to “take actions”, such requirements are more evil than they seems. But does that mean the relation between Congo and us cannot be established at all? Does that mean to neglect and overlook obvious catastrophe is the right thing to do to lead a good life (of course for western residents) today? The answer is “No”, such question is pathetic in itself as it brings in the concept of a “good life”, without seeing that a “good life” as such is also an illusion and an impossible object for segregated westerners under the same system.
I felt anxious after I wrote the paper about Congo, then I decided to transfer this anxiety into an art project. I decided to combine the suffering of Congo people, with the anxiety to see this suffering and also with the personal anxiety as a foreign student (or a Chinese immigrant) living in the US.  

Because of language problem and a weird feeling towards the overwhelmed do-not-harass liberal tolerant culture, I always find it hard to speak things out in public spaces in US. Actually I don’t know where the public space is; it seems that everyone is so cautious of not trespassing a regulated legitimate space, but such spacial regulation precisely follows the logic of the power. I noticed this, so I feel awkward and anxious about it.

On one hand, I felt the guilt and anxiety of writing a paper on Congo, but did nothing except handed it in as homework; on the hand, I felt the anxiety and impotence of sharing my thoughts with the public. Suddenly I came to an idea that this two anxiety can combine. Although it is very frustrated, the fact that I have two kinds of opposite anxiety is in itself an illustration that I do have a universal suffer, along with Congo people (but of course they are much more miserable, the agony should not be effaced). Since a “should”, a super-ego imperative is inevitable, I should also use this “should” to fight for myself, thus I allowed myself to take a personal trespass. I posted my Congo essay page by page on the glass shop fronts in Boston and New York. They are just A4 paper, they are courteous and do not demand anyone come near to read. (I don’t want them to be super-ego imperatives) But the idea is that the scenario is strange, worth-thinking, and even beautiful in a cruel sense. The glass walls, whether show the indoors or the reflection of outdoors, gave a realistic picture of a peaceful life. The A4 paper of the Congo essay, as bland as merely a piece of paper with some ink, in our imagination triggered a far more vivid, colorful and dramatic picture of the “real” things in the world. So which is real? The glass or the paper? It is very ambiguous, and I caught the core of my anxiety in this ambiguity.

I took pictures of paper on glass, and I built this website to show them to you.

Yoly Yin

2019 Feb 11
